Ruslan's Final Report (#74)
WhitakerLab/whitakerlab.github.io: _posts/blog/2019-08-19-Ruslan's-Final-Report.md

---
layout: post

> title: GSoC Final Report by Ruslan 

Reviewer: Just changing to sync up your and @monicayao's posts.

```suggestion
title: Ruslans's GSoC Final Report
```

categories: blog

> excerpt: work product submission on the scona project during GSoC program

Reviewer: Do you mind if we change this? I think this excerpt will make more people want to read it when they're scanning through the blog!
```suggestion
excerpt: Final report for work on the scona project during GSoC 2019
```

Author: Sure, I've changed that

image:
  feature:
link:
date: 2019-08-19
modified:
share: true
author: ruslan_yermakov
---

## TL;DR - GSoC Summary

> > **Student**: Ruslan Yermakov  

Reviewer: Should this whole block be quoted (using `>` syntax)? Seems like it will format strangely if only the first line is.

Or no quoting? The project part might be kinda long? Give rendering it a try and see what you think.

Author: Yep, rendering helps a lot to understand how the post will look like

Apparently, one `>` is enough quote the block. 

Speaking about "The project part might be kinda long", it does not seem so to me, but  I made a second option

1) 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14000852/63106009-97855300-bf8a-11e9-9503-b655b25eb4fe.png)

2) 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14000852/63106045-b1269a80-bf8a-11e9-9dae-8af32ad55a89.png)

Which one do you prefer? :)

Reviewer: I updated some gems because GitHub gave me a security warning, and now I need to add `<br>`s to each of those lines. I don't know why - some updated version of jekyll I presume - but they're in the PR I've opened to your master branch.

Reviewer: Oh - and I like the second one which is the one you added I think - thank you!

**Mentor**: Dr Kirstie Whitaker    
**Organization**: [INCF](https://www.incf.org/gsoc2019/projectlist)    
**Project**: In the course of the program I was working on the open-source project [**scona**](https://github.com/WhitakerLab/scona) - a toolkit to perform brain network analyses. 
The goal of my project was to produce publication-ready brain network analysis results and visualizations from the command line. 

In this blog I am sharing the achieved deliverables and results with the community.

## The scope of the project

Neuroscientists and neuroimaging researches perform structural network analyses on the MRI data.

> Scona is designed to imrove this experience and to help researchers run brain analyses quickly and reliably in order to capture many aspects of brain structure and function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`scona` stands for structural covariance network analysis and is designed to improve this experience and to help researchers run brain analyses quickly and reliably in order to capture many aspects of brain structure and function.
```

> My project is mainly focused on the visualisation part that is now included in the scona package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My project was mainly focused on the visualisation part that is now included in the scona package.
```

  
Achieved deliverables:
- implementation of visualization module to plot MRI data and the results of structural covariance brain network analyses;  

> - development of visualisation functions which allows users to produce publication-ready plots based on the results of the performed analysis for publication in a scientific journal;  

Reviewer: Make sure you're consistent between British and US spellings of visualisation (vs visualization)! Same for colour and color. I'm not sure I've been in the tutorials but it is important to catch. I don't mind which one you go for - pick your favourite and stick with it 😄

Author: Over this time I got used to the British spelling - "visualisation" :laughing:

- writing documentation and tutorials to help users better understand how to use the package;
- fixing bugs and issues in the project; 

> #### Links to my contributions

Reviewer: Is this the right level of heading? Maybe 3 ### ? Previous was 2.

Same for headings further down (I'm not going to comment on all of them).

Give the post a render and see what looks best.

Author: Yeah, levels of heading:
# H1
## H2
### H3
#### H4
##### H5
###### H6

I do not see any big difference on the website (after rending), so I will probably change to ### (3) because the 1st heading was ##(2) - just have 1-level decrease

There are a bunch of [issues](https://github.com/WhitakerLab/scona/issues) within the project, which were used to discuss new features, to find solutions for challenges and to communicate the results. 

> You can easily search for issues by filtering using label “visualisations” and/or “enhancement”.

Reviewer: Add links.

Fix fancy “...” to straight ".

Author: what do you mean by this?
> Fix fancy “...” to straight ".

What kind of links do you want me to add in this part?
(I do have one link to issues page at scona repo)

Reviewer: I've added the links to the filtered lists in the PR to your fork.

And you should be able to see there the difference between the "curly" quotation marks and the plain ones.

Here are the links to my merged Pull Requests that cover all the work:

> 1) [Implementation of visualisation tools #121](https://github.com/WhitakerLab/scona/pull/121)

Reviewer: Does this syntax render as a list correctly? I think it needs to be `1.  fdsjklaf;j`, (not `1) fnadkl`)

2) [Implementation of anatomical network visualisations #140](https://github.com/WhitakerLab/scona/pull/140)
3) [Add Nilearn plotting functionality to scona #145](https://github.com/WhitakerLab/scona/pull/145)
4) [TODO - open new one here new opened]()

> <figure class="half">

Reviewer: I think this figure could go under another heading called something like "Some beautiful visualisations" (you can change that if you don't fancy using "beautiful" in the heading!) and then adding some text to say what those example visualisations are actually showing you.

Just one or two sentences for each picture in one or two paragraphs explaining why people would want to understand the brain.

If you give it a try I can edit any of the details, so don't worry about getting everything exactly right. But you do know a lot about brain network analyses now - the blog should showcase that!

Author: I will surely try, but I believe I will need your help to edit this part :)

And in answer to "why people would want to understand the brain", I can go really philosophic, e.g. like if we put the map (connectome) of neuron connections (trillions) inside the computer, will this make a computer think like a real human?

unraveling the mysteries around the brain (as it is the most secret part of the human body), investigating brain ( read "human") capabilities, finding patterns in brain and discovering the nature and reasons of human behavior, thoughts, feelings... what causes mental disorders, the process of aging(?) and so on and so forth...

Reviewer: You did a great job @wingedRuslan!! Well done!

>   <img src="/images/Ruslan-GSoC/2pic.png" alt="Picture 1">

Reviewer: Add more descriptive alt text for people with screen readers.

  <img src="/images/Ruslan-GSoC/3pic.png" alt="Picture 2">
</figure>
<figure class="half">
  <img src="/images/Ruslan-GSoC/1pic.png" alt="Picture 3">
  <img src="/images/Ruslan-GSoC/4pic.png" alt="Picture 4">
  <figcaption> Created plots from the sample dataset </figcaption>
</figure>

#### Challenges

Of course, there were some challenges during my project. 

> To name a few: writing understandable tutorials, adjusting parameters to ensure the produced figures are ready to be published in the research paper and … colorbars (do not underestimate them!).

Reviewer: COLORBAAAAAAAARS (so much harder than you think!)

Well done 👾

Probably the hardest thing was to write clear tutorials to demonstrate the usage of scona package for data visualization. 
Together with the supportive community, we managed to accomplish the task. 

> Moreover, owing to the constant feedback from my mentor, I was able to develop visualization functions that produce publication-ready plots, thereby achieving my goal in this project.

Reviewer: 💖  Absolutely.
